Let us now look at how to customize chart parameters while installing a chart.
When we installed WordPress, we installed everything with its default values.
But we may not want to do that at all times. For example, the blog has a default name
called users blog, we may not want our WordPress site to have this name. So how did it get this
name in the first place. The WordPress application deployed by the deployment or YAML file has a
WordPress blog name value set as an environment variable. And it picks the value from the values
.yaml file, which has it set to users blog. So that's where the value is being picked from.
Now when we install the WordPress application with a Helm chart, we did it with a single
helm install command. This command pulls the chart and deploys the application instantly.
So there is no window for us to modify the value in values.yaml file.
One way we could modify some of the default values is by passing in a command line parameter
along with the helm install command using the set option. With the set option, you can pass in
any field from the values.yaml file and set a value for it in the command line. This can be
used multiple times to pass multiple parameters to the command line to customize the deployment.
So here we customize the WordPress blog name property to helm tutorials, and the user email
to john@example.com. And these override the values set in the values.yaml file.
If there are too many of these values, then another option is to move these to our own custom
values.yaml file. So here we create a file named custom values.yaml. And we then move
the variables inside this. Since this is a YAML file, we replace the equal sign with the colon.
And we then pass in this file using the values option like this. So --values, custom
values.yaml. So this is going to now pick the values from this custom values file,
and then override the values in the default values.yaml file.
Finally, what if we really want to modify the built-in values.yaml file itself,
instead of using the command line option or the custom values file. So instead of running the
helm install command, we will break it up into two commands. First, we pull the chart using the
helm pull command. Now this will pull the chart in an archived form or compressed form. And then
you will have to unarchive or uncompress it. Or you could have helm uncompress it by running the
helm pull command with the --untar option in the command line. Now this creates a directory
named WordPress. Under this, you will see all the files that are part of the chart. And there
is the values.yaml file, we can then open and edit this file in any text editor. And then once
we are ready, we run the helm install command. But instead of specifying the WordPress chart name,
now we specify the path to the local WordPress directory. So the ./ here indicates
current directory, and it picks the chart from the WordPress directory, which is under the
current directory. So when you run the helm install command, you can specify the release name followed by
the chart name, which is on the chart repository. Or if you have a local chart on your local file
system, in a particular directory, you can specify the path to that directory as well. Well, that's
all for now. And I will see you in the next one.